"Good technical analysis is a lot like clear thinking made visual.
" I took a quote from Edward Tufte and make a little tweak to it.
So we've come full circle.
In the beginning of the module,
I pointed out that 89% of analysts use visual diagramming techniques.
I wanted to impress on you that everything should be as visual as possible,
not just for user interfaces.
Being more visual will help you better bridge the gap
between the business and the technical teams,
making things easier to understand and communicate.
Here's my point of view.
The tools I have discussed work just as well for either waterfall or agile,
or any other software development methodology you may be using.
Continuously improve the tools as you see fit.
Maybe add this there or that here.
Add some documentation to help new hires.
And keep some samples around to show others.
Also, have a repository of all your technical BA assets.
Hopefully having a repository in place that includes a variety of tools,
checklists, templates,
and processes will help you increase the efficiency of
how you operate as a technical BA.
Not only will this greatly help you,
but it'll be easier to cross-train new hires or new team members,
thus allowing the whole team to work smarter.
Get good at knowing how, when, and why to apply these methods and tools.
You know, buying the best frying pan will not make you a good cook,
so tools won't give you good results unless you know how,
when, and why to apply them.
And lastly, just as a reminder, I am not sponsoring any products mentioned,
but only provided their names as examples that might
point you in the right direction.
This module covered my magnificent seven skill areas
that a technical BA should know.
Let's touch on the key takeaways for each.
User interface/user experience.
This may be the most near and dear to the heart of the average end user.
They love to see screens, pages,
reports or anything visual that represents their world.
It also brings you closer to them.
You can learn so much more about the fabric and contour of their requirements.
Plus, it is a great opportunity to build trust.
Data modeling.
Granted, this one may not appeal to customers and end users,
but certainly to the app dev side of the house.
Performing data modeling, even at a very high level,
will help you refine the requirements and bridge the gap with the app dev team.
Business data analytics.
Leverage this skill area to identify and analyze data,
patterns, and trends to enable much more informed business decisions,
either regarding whether you should do a new system or not,
or simply to perform sophisticated what-if analyses.
Remember, big data is only getting bigger,
so these kinds of tools are a necessity.
Interface analysis.
The world continues to move rapidly to where an application is simply a
collection of APIs with a custom wrapper to glue it all together.
Now, there's a new term in the market today to keep an eye on,
and that term is platforms.
A platform is a group of technologies that are used as a
base upon which other applications, processes or technologies are developed.
It's kind of like APIs on steroids.
So keep an eye out on that one and how that might fit
into your solutions in the future.
Quality assurance, test plan, and test cases.
I included this skill area because there is such great synergy for
the technical BA to participate in test planning,
developing test cases and, if time allows,
the actual testing of the system.
Off-the-shelf solutions.
They may sound easy to procure and implement by senior management,
but we know better.
It takes good analysis, solid requirements,
and product research to identify the right solutions.
I also recommend that off-the-shelf may be easier for your
back-office needs that don't have to touch the customer.
And also that customized solutions, leveraging off-the-shelf solutions,
APIs and platforms, may be best for your customers and supply chain users.
Prototyping.
Your prototyping tools of the trade are,
in fact, most of the very things we talked about in this module.
Most of these tools and methods are used in developing prototypes,
so get good at them.
Lastly, your choice.
Maybe some of these skill areas are not relevant to you,
and maybe there are others relevant, but not listed here.
Well,
it is your choice to simply use the ones you want and
add any others you think you need.
Most importantly, have your own technical BA tools of the trade that works for you.